.TH NREM-CLI 1
.SH NAME
nrem cli \- A simple reminder program

.SH SYNOPSIS
.EX
nrem cli
        add [time] [event name]
        search [start time] [end time] (format)
        remove [id]
.EE

.SH DESCRIPTION
\fInrem\fP associates dates and times with events. It has two interfaces: a cli,
and a tui. This man page is for the cli.

The cli has three subcommands: \fIadd\fP, \fIsearch\fP, and \fIremove\fP.
\fIadd\fP creates a new event, \fIsearch\fP shows all events within a certain
time frame, and \fIremove\fP removes an event. 

.SH ADD
The \fIadd\fP command takes two arguments: the time of the event and the event
name.

.EX
    $ nrem cli add 2023-08-10,10:00pm "Doctor's appointment"
.EE

.SH SEARCH
The \fIsearch\fP command has two required arguments: the start time and end time
of the search. The command also optionally accepts the format of the output.

.EX
    $ nrem cli search now now+2w DATE,TIME12,NAME
    2023-08-10	10:00:00 PM	Business meeting
    2023-08-11	9:00:00 AM	Trash day
.EE

The output format is a comma separated list of fields, each of which are
tab-delimited in the output. The following table shows all the fields and their
meanings:

.TS
tab(|);
l l
l l .
Field|Meaning
=
DATE|The date of the event in ISO 8601 format (yyyy-mm-dd)
TIME12|The time of the event in the format \fIhh:mm:ss AM/PM\fP
TIME24|The time of the event in the format \fIhh:mm:ss\fP
NAME|The name of the event
ID|The ID of the event
.TE

The default format is \fIDATE,TIME12,NAME\fP

.SH REMOVE
The remove command accepts an event ID and removes that event

.EX
    $ nrem cli remove 2412
.EE

.SH DATES
Dates in command arguments are specified through strings. Each string begins
with an absolute time and possibly contains several offsets. Each offset is
prepended by a either a '+' or '~' character. As a formal grammar:

.EX
    date :=
            absolute-time
    |       absolute-time offsets
    
    offsets :=
            offset
    |       offsets offset
    
    offset :=
            '+' offset-value
    |       '~' offset-value
.EE

Absolute times are either \fInow\fP for the current time, a date in ISO-8601
format, a time, or both separated by a comma. As a formal grammar:

.EX
    absolute-time :=
            'now'                       ; The current time
    |       iso-date                    ; A specific date at midnight
    |       time                        ; A specific time today
    |       iso-date ',' time           ; A specific time at a specific date
    
    iso-date :=                         ; YYYY-MM-DD date
            number '-' number '-' number
    
    time :=
            hour-minute 'AM'            ; A 12 hour time AM
            hour-minute 'PM'            ; A 12 hour time PM
            hour-minute                 ; A 24 hour time
    
    hour-minute :=
            number                      ; 9PM
    |       number ':' number           ; 9:12PM
    |       number ':' number ':' number; 9:12:34PM
.EE

A relative time is some number followed by a unit, and can be used in
conjunction with absolute times. For example, 'now' means now and '2w' means 2
weeks, so 'now+2w' means two weeks from now, and 'now~2w' means 2 weeks ago.
Note that the 'ago' operator is NOT the minus sign '-', but the tilde sign '~'.
This is because the minus sign is already used by ISO-8601 dates. As a formal
grammar:

.EX
    offset-value :=
            number value

    number :=
            digit
    |       number digit

    value :=
            'w'                         ; weeks
    |       'd'                         ; days
    |       'h'                         ; hours
    |       'm'                         ; minutes
    |       's'                         ; seconds
.EE

.SH FILES
\fIdatefile\fP
	$DATEFILE
	$HOME/.config/nrem/datefile
